# CS-305
### Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
The client Artemis Financial is a consulting company that develops individualized financial plans for their customers. The client is looking to add a file verification step in the form of a checksum when transferring secure data over HTTPS. The software requires an applicable encryption/decryption cipher to generate checksums.
### What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
I feel as if I did well ensuring that there weren't any added vulnerabilities when completing the refactored code. I ensured that all code was written to be easily understood and read for future developers. Coding securely ensures that vulnerabilities aren't created on your end. If a package is decided to be vulnerable, then updates must occur on their end. If all of the code is secure from your standpoint as a developer, you can save money for your company along with hours of debugging and testing. Software security ensures a trustworthy company that provides excelent business and security to their clients.
### What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
Understanding the specific vulnerabilities can be challenging and time consuming. Having to create dependency reports by hand can be quite irritating. I did enjoy having a flow chart of directions to follow when observing and creating vulnerability assessments.
### How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
To increase layers of security, I used ciphers to encrypt and decrypt messages. I also used input validation to ensure that only valid information could pass through the application. Along with ciphers and input validation, making sure that errors were caught and handled ensured an unbreakable application. I feel that OWASP is a great maven dependency to assess vulnerabilities when using Java, but also having the wide array of CVE databases ensures that we're able to handle dependency vulnerabilities accordingly. Throughout this course, we didn't update any of the dependencies from when the package was originaly created, but in a real life situation, making sure that all dependencies are updated frequently is especially important for vulnerability assessments.
### How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
To ensure that my software application was functional and secure, I first ran a OWASP dependency check on the code before refactoring. Then I refactored the code to complete the assignment. With the refactored code, I attempted different techniques to break the code by using incorrect inputs. The code was able to handle all of the errors accordingly. The code was written with quality to ensure correct coding techniques. After refactoring the code, I ran another OWASP dependency check to ensure that no added errors showed up.
### What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
The CVE database was very helpful when doing vulnerability analysis, along with handling errors and input validation. I know that in a lot of my older assignments, I didn't handle errors because the code was able to get the job done. However, in a real life environment, it's extremely important to handle errors that occur within the codebase. Input validation is also extremely important to avoid SQL injection and malicious attacks to break your application. I've been very relaxed on naming conventions for variables in the past, and I've been doing much better at naming variables with intention and quality.
### Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
I would show future employers my experience at creating certificates and my vulnerability analysis. Along with creating certificates and vulnerability analysis, I might show them the refactored code that has the use of ciphers for checksum verifications.
